# Personal website

I created this website mainly to host my blog posts, after getting frustrated with [Substack](https://decisiontree.substack.com/)'s lack of inline math rendering and syntax higlhighting or backtick-demarcation for code snippets/blocks. To spend as little time on this as possible, I used Jekyll and the default GitHub Pages hosting option. 

## To do

In rough order of priority:

- [ ] Add tagging for posts, especially the `technical` tag.
- [X] Set up a workflow for creating and viewing drafts.
  - It has to be more sophisticated than just creating new posts, not committing them, and viewing them locally.
  - Solution: keep drafts in the `_drafts` folder and view locally with `bundle exec jekyll serve --drafts`.
- [ ] Add a now page.
- [ ] Add a projects page.
- [ ] Add a CV.
- [ ] Add a posts page to the navbar that redirects to the home page.
- [ ] Remove the repeated "Ishan Mukherjee" at the footnote; it looks monumentally silly.
- [ ] Add an email signup button for posts. Lots of people don't use RSS.
- [ ] Add my picture to the About page.
- [ ] Add a workflow where I don't have to upload images to a subdirectory. The ideal would be `ctrl-v`ing images. 
- [ ] Add automatic dating for posts, or at least a keyboard shortcut for entering the date on VS Code (or whatever editor).
- [X] Add auto-centering for images.
  - Basically, when I paste in an image using HTML, I should not have to use the inline CSS incantations (auto margins left and right) to _center_ it. I should only have to use CSS if I want _not_ to center it.
- [X] Add simple image captioning
- [ ] Add dark mode.
- [ ] Display subtitles in posts homepage, and in each post.
- [ ] Add wordcount and reading time to each post.
  - [ ] Ideally, automate estimation.
- [ ] Add "Essays" and "Notes" to the navbar
    - "Essays" should just redirect to the homepage.
    - "Notes" should display only those posts marked as notes in the `layout` or by some other means in the front matter.
    - The distinction is that "essays" are well-formed, longish pieces, while "notes" are more off-the-cuff and may be developed into essays later.
    
## Worflow for copying old posts

My workflow for transferring old posts from my [Substack](https://decisiontree.substack.com/) to the blog:

- Go to Edit mode on Substack post 
- Copy the entire post's contents 
- Paste into a Google Doc 
- Manually debold headings
- Remove all images (but not captions, so that you can search for captions in pasted markdown later and insert images there).
- Add chevrons to blockquote so that correctly formatting them in the markdown becomes a matter of `ctrl+h`ing for `\>` and replacing with the correct chevrons `>`.
- Copy from the Google Doc _as markdown_ and paste into a markdown post in the repo.
- Open the post locally and tweak until things look correct.
- Publish.

## New posts checklist

[Gwern-style](https://gwern.net/about#writing-checklist), I have made a checklist for the "things look correct" step above:

- Upload images to /assets/images
- Ensure every image has alt text or a caption (ideally both, if the caption doesn't describe what the image is).
- Form image captions correctly.
- Add a "comments on Substack" with the correct link at the top of the post.
- Edit date on filename.
- Edit date on front matter.
- Edit permalink.
- Manually enter blockquotes (annoyingly, Google Docs cannot copy over blockquotes correctly).
- Manually form footnotes.
- If you've got time, name footnotes instead of numbering them so that they stay accurate as new footnotes are added.
- Ensure all headings are debolded (Google Docs bolds headings by default when pasting from Substack; there is a step in the worflow to manually debold headings in the doc, but I am human and need double-checking).
- Remove the long image links immediately generated by Google Docs on copying as markdown (if you forgot to delete images in the doc itself).
- Search for "Decision Tree" (as in "thanks for reading, subscribe to Decision Tree") and remove all references to it.
- Search for `$` where it is meant to be the currency sign and correctly format it (by default, it gets interpreted as a MathJax delimiter).